now Hamas has abducted dozens of people
including children and the elderly some
hostages were also taken at an outdoor
Music Festival close to Gaza gunman shot
dead at least 260 people there now the
families of some of those at the
festival still have no news about their
loved ones they don't know whether they
are dead or alive our correspondent
Tanya Kramer sent us this
report the uncertainty is unbearable
since Saturday Hadas and Tom shalom have
had no news of their daughter Noam she
was at a rave next to giut near the Gaza
border when Hamas militants launched
their
attack no was
calling at
8:30 about 8:30 in the morning in
Saturday and she was frighten and crying
and um she was like saying there's
gunshot we could hear like there is
gunshot around
and uh we find some shelter place and we
group of people
together and um these things happen here
sometimes you know like I was telling
her no problem you're in a safe place
don't worry this will end soon and uh
see you in a
while and uh she said okay I don't have
much battery
so uh I love you all and um
I'm I'm afraid but I love you all and I
don't know what's going to happen but
anyway I love you all remember that she
said up to several thousand mainly young
party goers were at this site Saturday
morning when Rockets were launched and
gunmen started to shoot at least 250
people died here dozens are missing
thought to be taken to Gaza and held
hostage by the
militants 3 Days Later thas Shalom and
his family are still searching hospitals
hoping their daughter wasn't
abducted that was the last time that
anyone heard something from
no and uh from that time we are kind of
in a total darkness there is a sense of
sadness anger and uncertainty of what is
there to come as more details emerge
from what unfolded on Saturday many
Israelis have a hard time to come to ter
with the unprecedented attack on Israeli
communities near the Gaza Strip in Tel
Aviv yam hadari has also been looking
for her friend Ram he was working at the
festival they have known each other
since they were teenagers and then the
last contact with him was at
9:21 a.m. um Saturday morning he sent a
text message to his mother and uh in the
text message he says that he he loves
them his
family um but he's in a container uh
there are a lot of terrorists outside
lots of gunshots outside and it does not
seem like they are going to make it out
of their Al friends and family scoured
social media for a sign of Life they
didn't know what had happened to him but
then a text message
arrives
um I was just asking Rams why wife L if
um if she can send me one of his
pictures so I can uh so I can send it to
you it's from their wedding day and
um and uh she says that they they told
them now officially that he's
dead um his family knows already he's
one of the many killed in this
attack uh DW's Jerusalem correspondent T
Kramer filed that report you just saw
and she joins me now um Tanya as as you
say in your report many people are still
missing uh they may have been abducted
um but what do we know about the people
who are known to have been
taken well I think right now I mean it's
an incredibly difficult situation for
people um uh with L ones missing because
there's still the identification process
going on for those we saw in the report
who are still waiting to know what
happened to them but there are others
they know for sure because there were
some of the hering videos that were
posted on social media where they saw
their love Fones being dragged over the
border into Gaza they also don't know
you know are they injured uh what has
happened to them and from some some of
those there are some of the details that
are coming there was an elderly woman
from a kibuts that was dragged and you
know uh driven away uh on a on a pickup
truck uh we also saw a young uh guy in
his 20s he was almost half naked on a
pickup truck we also know about a young
paramedic a young woman uh who was uh
taken to Gaza these are you know
relatives they know uh that their um
loved ones are in Gaza and there's an
identification process at the moment
going on with the uh Army uh informing
uh families uh what has happened to
their L ones but there are also more and
more details
uh coming out you know from from other
areas in the South that have been closed
off until now for example in kibuts ber
that's also very very close to the Gaza
border where over 100 bodies have been
discovered in the past days and more and
more of those relatives and families are
reaching out especially also to the
foreign media because they want you know
the world to know what has happened
there very quickly Tanya what can you
tell us about the Israeli government's
plans to rescue the hostages are other
governments for example whose Nationals
are among those hostages stepping into
help well this is still too early uh to
tell because um we know we have to look
maybe in the past I mean Hamas has taken
hostages uh before uh like in 2006 a
soldier was uh uh captured and then
taken into Gaza he was released only in
2011 um against a thousand Palestinian
prisoners but this is so unprecedented
you know taking civilians people
children so um there's no Playbook here
what is there to come for them and
that's where we'll leave it for the
moment we will be coming back to you
Tanya later in our coverage that's Tanya
Kramer in Jerusalem and I'm now joined
by lirry Roman his sister yardin has
been missing since Saturday's terrorist
attack by Hamas yardin was visiting
relatives in kibuts Berry in southern
Israel when it was attacked Yan's
husband and her three-year-old daughter
uh were abducted but they managed to
escape lirry joins uh me now from give
in Israel lirry I really appreciate you
uh coming on to the program uh today I
can't imagine how difficult uh this must
be for you but can you just start by
telling us a little bit more about your
sister's
disappearance yes of course thank you
Christine for having us
um as you said um my sister and her
family alone her husband and G and her
daughter a three-year-old
daughter um went to their
fam's dinner um for holiday for a
holiday feast um in Friday evening they
stayed the night there um and woke up on
Saturday
for this madness um people coming to
their home um to the shelter that they
have built for their family
um and just pulled them out of there
um in the house um all alone's family my
my sister's husband um two of his um
parents his sister as well um they were
taking at um at different stages he was
the first one um he was got into a car
um he thought that G and GE
um were hiding and that they'll be okay
yeah and but after a few minutes they
also were pulled into the same car and
and they were all taken together and
towards the
Border um this is where our story have a
little of magic in it um where they
found this opportunity to just get out
of the car a car with three
terrorists um
armed and they started
running they started running the
beginning they had a chance uh to run
without anyone behind them um but then
they've they heard the terrorists after
them starting to shoot
towards and this is the point this is
where where they they lost track of each
other where they went in different
directions uh Larry as I understand I'm
spurring you on because I do want to get
other aspects of of this uh of this
story um have you heard any news uh it's
been 4 days now since your sister
disappeared any indication of her
whereabouts no um so
because there is the spot of where y Yen
and Alon um got aart a certain tree
where he last saw her um there are teams
that are looking in the field trying to
find any track any sign of a direction
we hope that maybe she's still hiding
somewhere but we've heard nothing we
know
nothing um it's an innocent woman a
mother for a three-year-old child that
is now here with me um that we need to
take care of her until her mother will
be
back specifically here um then he also
German
citizen um so we
did want to hear also from from Germany
um to put as much as much pressure to to
know about a citizen of Germany that is
that's missing in the
unknown since
Saturday Larry um of course there's a
lot of uncertainty here we saw in my
colleague Tanya Kramer's report that we
AED uh shortly before talking to you uh
for some families uh the reality is
their relatives have been uh found and
the news is not great because the
relatives have been found dead um I
wondered L this is probably a very
unfair question to you but if your
sister is being held somewhere in Gaza
does that give you a little bit more
hope that that that she is alive um
bearing in mind we don't know what's
happening to to the hostages that have
been taken uh into
Gaza
I think that this is why it's so
important for us um to talk about it and
to bring it to the attention of the
world um so everyone will will care
about those people so the
attackers will keep them safe they will
have them and hold them but they will
keep them safe because they'll know that
they're not messing just with Israel and
they're not just messing with the
Israeli um government it's not a war war
of an Army against Army it's innocent
people it could be if it's if it's going
to be a
system of
Terror it's going to be everywhere and
we hope that the voice of world will
help us keep your safe even though she's
held hostage somewhere Larry um we're
reporting a lot about this ground
offensive that we anticipate that Israel
will launch into into Gaza and we've
heard from Hamas uh that they will kill
some of the hostages or they will kill
the hostages that they've taken uh in
retaliation uh to that does that does
that worry you uh knowing that this is
the threat on your sister's life if
indeed she is in um in
Gaza I must be honest and say that we
are we're interviewing here today
because we feel it's very important to
to tell the story and to make the whole
world aware but I'm not much aware of
what's going on in the in the um press
and what's what's what we hear from
Kamas um because I have a three-year-old
to take care of yeah
um and I appreciate that I don't want
to I I totally understand that um of
course you've got a lot to deal with at
the moment um Larry have you um there
are other fames that are in in in the
situation that you are in now have you
been in contact uh with them is there
some kind of a support system that you
all have established to help each other
uh at this
moment so there are a few and we're
trying um at the beginning everything
was chaos um as expected I guess um
nobody knew anything and we're still
trying to figure out there a lot of
different channels of communication
different groups um not everything is
very organized uh not everything is
official we haven't got a even not one
official phone call um from an authority
saying we're looking for your sister or
we don't have any new information but
we're on it um and this is one of the
main things that we need the support of
one another um to try and push to try
and
um get some sense into this crazy
situation Larry I really appreciate
you're coming on to the program today to
talk to us about this um thank you so
much uh for sharing uh that story with
us that is Larry Roman whose sister is
still missing uh since Saturday's uh
attacks thanks so much again Larry all
the best to your
family thank you
well I'm joined Now by Moshi zimman he
is an Israeli historian and a leading
Authority on nationalism and
anti-Semitism he joins me tonight from
Jerusalem Mr Timberman we appreciate you
for staying up to talk with us this
evening um I'm sure you've heard the
news Israeli forces today saying that
they have regained total control of
Israeli territory along the border with
Gaza but they didn't do it in time to
prevent the kidnapping of some 150
people who are now hostages in the hands
of Hamas what does history tell you
about the chances of getting these
hostages out safe and
sound well it is a
very tragic history that we have it's
very hard to get the hostages back from
any ER Arab country and especially not
from the Hamas we had already
long story about getting back one
soldier or one civilian now we have to
do with a whole group of more than 100
people so the chances of getting them
back uh even if we are ready if Israel
is ready to pay the price is very
low what is the Readiness in Israeli
Society in your opinion of um accepting
the price being collateral damage that
these
hostages um may have to die in order to
defeat
Hamas well it is quite clear that the
Army is going to try to free those
hostages by force and of course we know
that this is a very uh difficult task
the general public is of course all for
freeing the people but they take the
chance after all that while bombing
the Gaza Strip This is going
to bring about the death of the hostages
too the wish for Revenge I think is at
the moment so strong that the other
considerations are becoming more
background consideration it is a very
cruel decision to be made but the my
impression is that people are ready to
take the risk they are all for punishing
the Arabs punishing the people of Gaza
of course punishing Hamas and they are
ready to pay the
price the prime minister of Israel
Netanyahu he says that he is going to
change the Middle East um and when you
hear him say that um what do you
understand in that statement change it
in what way I mean what will this new
this different Middle East look like
after this attack on
Hamas well I'm a Israeli as a Israeli I
got used to not to believe to anything
that my prime minister says but I
understand what he intends to do he
wants to erase Hamas and maybe even more
than only Hamas he wants to change the
balance of power in Gaza and around Gaza
and between Israel and the Arab
neighbors by punishing Hamas or by
punishing Gaza this is a general idea I
don't believe I don't think that he
going to H achieve a real change if he
is not going to be ready to deal with
the Palestinians especially in the those
of the pal Palestinian Authority as long
as you
don't you don't show any signs of
Readiness to have real peace with the
Palestinians I'm not talking about Hamas
I'm talking about the Palestinian people
in the West Bank then of course you are
not going to change anything radically
and it's a only a kind of a slogan that
he uses in order to console the Israeli
soul I know that you've been critical of
netanyahu's government and you've called
this war a failure of the Israeli State
what exactly do you mean by
that the Israeli state was created in
order to be a safe haven for Jews from
all over the world we know about the
story of the Jews in the diasporas in
the 18th century in the 12th century
that were programed by the non-jews by
Christian by others and the idea a the
whole idea of Zionism world to create a
state to create a place in which Jews
will live safely this is something that
was really destroyed by the uh what
happened Saturday near the Gaza Strip
Jews in Israel in the sovereign state of
Israel in the sovereign state of the
Zionist movement was slaughtered were
programed the same way as it was uh in
the 18th century and 19th century
Eastern Europe or even during the second
world war when the Nazis invaded East
invaded the
ussl if the state has failed in its
obligation to
protect the people in Israel um let me
ask you personally do you feel less safe
now than you did a week ago I mean what
what have the events from Saturday what
have they done to your notion of of
personal safety inside the Jewish state
of
Israel well of course I expect the
Israeli Army to protect most of the
Israeli Society this was an exception
this occurrence three days ago but in
general one must have to admit that the
Israeli State Israel the state H is not
very successful ful in really keeping
the safety of the Israeli people it's
not only a problem of such a brutal
attack like the one from Gaza this is
something that you feel in the everyday
life there is something wrong about the
way the Israeli Israeli politics
understand their Duty toward their
people and their Duty toward
history historian M Zimmerman Mr
Zimmerman I wish we had more time to
talk about this but I certainly
appreciate you taking the time to share
your thoughts with us tonight thank
you thank you very
much journalist Addie compel witz in
Jerusalem told us earlier more about
these reported
atrocities you said earlier that we
can't show the photos out of respect to
the victims uh unfortunately I had to
watch these materials today and never in
all of my journalism career have I seen
such horrific videos and images from
anywhere in the world we're talking
about tens and tens of mutilated bodies
some of them
burned beheaded babies thrown in the
trails of the little community of karaza
whole families burned to death in their
shelters young mothers young children
shot down while they were bound outside
their houses truly unimaginable things
immense amounts of blood in each and
every house of the kibuts a result of
the slaughter because the terrorists
went from house to house they didn't
just come to attack or conquer the
kibuts they came to annihilate the
community to destroy them completely to
decimate them and we have to realize the
scale of this Kar AA is one of several
communities On the Border there were
about 700 people living in this kibuts
before the slaughter at least a 100 of
them are dead now that basically means
that the kibo as it was will no longer
exist the ACT done by Hamas and the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad in these
communities is no less than ethnic
cleansing President Biden uh uh compared
these acts of sheer evil as he said to
Isis I don't even recall images like
this coming from Iraq when Isis did
their journey of Horrors there truly
unprecedented sight one Community after
the other karaza just being the first
one that we getting testimonies out
of